doc: add unhandled promise rejection survey (#857)
nodejs/TSC: surveys/promise-rejections/survey.md

# Node.js Promise reject use case survey

Today, Node.js handles unhandled rejections by emitting a deprecation warning to stderr. The warning shows the stack where the rejection happened, and states that in future Node.js versions unhandled rejections will result on Node.js exitting with non-zero status code. We intend to remove the deprecation warning, replacing it with a stable behavior which might be different from the one described on the deprecation warning. We're running this survey to better understand how Node.js users are using Promises and how they are dealing with unhandled rejections today, so we can make an informed decision on how to move forward.

## What is a Promise rejection?

A Promise rejection indicates that something went wrong while executing a Promise or an async function. Rejections can occur on several situations: thorwing inside an async function or a `Promise` executor/then/catch/finally callback, when calling the `reject` callback of an `executor`, or when calling `Promise.reject`.

```js

> Promise.reject()  // This will result in a rejection

Reviewer: I mean, I know it's a bit silly but I would prefer if all these examples show `.reject(new Error())` just to not show people code that rejects with undefined without a stack trace 😅

new Promise((fulfill, reject) => {
  reject();  // This will result in a rejection
});

new Promise(() => {
  throw new Error();  // This will result in a rejection
}).then(() => {
  throw new Error();  // This will result in a rejection
}, () => {
  throw new Error();  // This will result in a rejection
}).catch(() => {
  throw new Error();  // This will result in a rejection
}).finally(() => {
  throw new Error();  // This will result in a rejection
});

async function () {
  throw new Error();  // This will result in a rejection
}

async function () {
  if (a === undefined)
    a();  // This will result in a rejection
}
```

> 

Reviewer: I would add a line or comment here explaining that just adding `async` before a function can transition an exception from an uncaught exception to an unhandled rejection.

## What is an unhandled rejection?

> Rejections are designed to be handled asynchronously. In JavaScript, Promises can be handled when awaiting for a promise inside a try/catch block, or via .catch calls:

Reviewer: I don't think that's true, rejections are _designed_ to be handled asynchronously so that errors are always in the same timing and users don't have to do `.catch` and `} catch {` both.

Promise are also generally not "handled" they are just "reacted to".

So I would either remove this line or explain that while _typically_ rejections are handled synchronously in JavaScript it is _possible_ to handle them asynchronously by attaching a `.catch` later on (inside a setTimeout) for example.

Author: > Promise are also generally not "handled" they are just "reacted to".

Even if "reacted to" is more correct from a spec perspective, I think it's important to consider the audience we're targeting, who might not be familiar with the term "reacted to" (for example, [on the MDN page for Promises](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise), the terminology "reacted to" is never used, but handlers is. Also, using "reacted to" might cause dissonance with "unhandled rejection" in the survey. If others feel strong about this terminology we can change, but I think sticking to "handled" here will be clearer for participants.

I see your point about the general phrasing though. This is a hard topic to phrase :). For example, IMO `_typically_ rejections are handled synchronously` gives the wrong impression that you can react to a rejection on the same turn it happened, when in truth it will only be handled in the future, even if we do `try { async Promise.reject() } catch { }`. I'll try to rephrase it in a way it covers what you're saying.

```js
async function foo() {
  throw new Error();
}

foo().catch(() => console.error("an error occured"));  // 1. Handled

try {

>   await foo();  // 2. Handled
> } catch(e) {
>   console.error("an error occured")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  await foo();
} catch(e) {  // 2. Handled
  console.error("an error occured")
```

}

foo(); // 3. Unhandled, but execution continues

> const rejected = foo(); // 4. Unhandled on current event loop tick

Reviewer: I would prefer "task" or something other than "event loop tick" which is a bit vague in terms of terminology.

Reviewer 2: Hmm, I find “event loop tick” precise and “task” to me means “promise-returning function” :-)

Reviewer: I'm honestly not sure what "event loop tick" means, I've never thought of it as a loop and I doubt users care about [internals](https://nodejs.org/fa/docs/guides/event-loop-timers-and-nexttick/) (even though that article isn't exactly accurate it's the best one I know).

If you think it's clearer I will concede, it's possible the vague terminology is a lot clearer than task/microtask.

Reviewer 2: stuff i send to newcomers in irc include https://nodesource.com/blog/understanding-the-nodejs-event-loop , https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8aGhZQkoFbQ , https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cCOL7MC4Pl0 - "event loop" is generally a well known concept from the browser. i've heard both "tick" and "turn" to describe an iteration of the event loop.

Author: I rarely (if every) hear Node.js developers refer to it as `task`. It's worth noting that this survey is targeted to Node.js developers, who may not be familiar with ECMAScript spec terminology.

I like `turn` better than `tick`, thanks @ljharb, I'll update this comment.

// 4. ... but handled asynchronously when the setTimeout callback is popped from
// the event loop
setTimeout(() => rejected.catch(() => console.error("an error occured")), 100);
```

An unhandled rejection is a rejection which hasn't been handled yet. It might be handled in the future, like example 4, but it might also stay unhandled forever (like example 3).

> 

Reviewer 3: Suggestion. Add the following paragraph, so that users are aware of potential problems caused by unhandled rejections.:
```
Unhandled rejections may leave your application in a non-deterministic state, whether it's internal application state (including memory leaks), external resources used by your application (say, file handles or database connections), or external state (say, consistency of data in a database).
```

I don't mind changing the text in a more readable/concise manner.

Reviewer: I think that's a bit scary and Jordan and Gus would probably object to that phrasing. I suggest alternatively:

> Certain unhandled rejections may in rare cases leave your application in a non-deterministic and unsafe state, whether it's internal application state (including memory leaks), external resources used by your application (say, file handles or database connections), or external state (say, consistency of data in a database).

I think it's important to communicate that it's not normal for any unhandled rejection to leave your app in inconsistent state but that it's possible.

Reviewer 3: I'm fine with the proposed change.

## Are you currently using Promises, async/await, a mix, or neither?

> Assume using as creating your own `new Promise`, `Promise.resolve`, and `async function`; or using libraries that produce Promises (that you use with `.then`/`.catch`, or with `.await`)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Assume using as creating your own `new Promise`, `Promise.resolve`, and `async function`; or using libraries that produce Promises (that you use with `.then`/`.catch`/`.finally`, or with `await`)
```

Reviewer 5: "Assume using as creating" still does not make sense to me. Not sure what its trying to communicate.

(Multiple choice)

  - [ ] Promises
  - [ ] async/await
  - [ ] Not writing Promise-based code or using Promise-based libraries

## How are you handling rejections today?

When consuming Promises, async functions or thenables, which of the options below do you use to handle rejections?

> (Multiple choice)

Reviewer: I mean, 'ignore the rejection' isn't really fair IMO because it implies the rejection is "ignored" where propagating rejections is what people do in 99% of cases I'd assume (because of how exceptions work).

So in most cases I'd assume he answer would be "propagate the error to my caller" since most code is not wrapped in try/catch.

Author: I'll replace with "Leave the handling to my caller", as "propagate" is a commonly used term when throwing. If others prefer "propagate" anyway, we can use it instead though.

  - [ ] `.catch()`
  - [ ] `try / catch` wrapping an `await` operation
  - [ ] Ignore the rejection
  - [ ] Not writing Promise-based code or using Promise-based libraries

> ## Do you know that Node.js has a global handled for unhandled rejections (`process.on('unhandledRejection')`)? If so, do you use it?

Reviewer: Can we please add (for comparison) the same question about `uncaughtException`? I want to know if the people answering aren't aware of the promises hook are also not aware of the non-promises hook.

> ## Do you know that Node.js has a global handled for unhandled rejections (`process.on('unhandledRejection')`)? If so, do you use it?

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
## Do you know that Node.js has a global handler for unhandled rejections (`process.on('unhandledRejection')`)? If so, do you use it?
```

 
  - [ ] I use `process.on('unhandledRejection')`
  - [ ] I don't use `process.on('unhandledRejection')`
  - [ ] I didn't know `process.on('unhandledRejection')` existed

> 

Reviewer 7: I suggest to add another question or entry above that mentions libraries such as `https://github.com/mcollina/make-promises-safe`.

Reviewer: ```
 - [ ] I use a third-party library (like make-promises-safe) to deal with unhandled rejections.
```

Or something similar sounds good to me.

## Do you know that Node.js has a flag to change the behavior of unhandled rejections `--unhandled-rejections`? If so, do you use it?

  - [ ] I use `--unhandled-rejections` set to `'strict'`
  - [ ] I use `--unhandled-rejections` set to `'warn'`
  - [ ] I use `--unhandled-rejections` set to `'none'`
  - [ ] I don't use `--unhandled-rejections`
  - [ ] I didn't know `--unhandled-rejections` existed

> ## Are you using Promises in customer facing, production applications?

Reviewer 6: 'customer facing' here is problematic... every line of code has a customer, it just varies who that customer is. I would restructure this to ask something like:

```
Are you using Promises in any of the following kinds of applications? (check all that apply)

[ ] Production-level code
[ ] Tests
[ ] Benchmarks
[ ] Build pipeline / infrastructure
[ ] Examples and Demos
[ ] Other ____
```

  - [ ] Yes
  - [ ] No
  - [ ] I don't know

## Which of the use cases described below do you spend most of your time on?

  - [ ] Third-party libraries
  - [ ] Command-line tools
  - [ ] Web servers
  - [ ] Computation-heavy processing
  - [ ] Desktop applications
  - [ ] Other (please elaborate)

> ## When a rejected promise doesn't have a catch handler, what is the behavior of your application today? 

Reviewer 7: Maybe add a note that asks for the biggest projects / most commonly worked on code? Most people won't only have a single application.

For example:

```js
async function error() {
  throw new Error();
}
error();
```

>   - [ ] Node.js logs a warning alongside a deprecation notice, execution continues

Reviewer: I would note here "this is the default Node.js behavior today".

Reviewer 7: I would keep it as is. It should not be an important factor what the current default is, right?

Reviewer: I'm not sure, there is a trade off. I only meant mentioning this here (and below) to better explain what it means.

If you believe it will create bias I will concede.

Author: I'll add it here and below (as suggested by @benjamingr), but we can remove if folks feel strong about it creating bias.

  - [ ] Logs a warning, continue running, no deprecation warning
  - [ ] Logs a warning, continue running, no deprecation warning, exits with an error code when program finishes

>   - [ ] Exit as soon as possible

Reviewer: I would note here "this is the default Node.js behavior for uncaught exceptions today".

Reviewer 7: I suggest to change it to: `Raises an exception that ends the application`.

Author: > I suggest to change it to: Raises an exception that ends the application.

Is that accurate though? `process.on("unhandledRejection", process.abort)` will not raise an exception, for example.

>   - [ ] Other (please elaborate)

Reviewer 7: We might want to add more possible situations here. Suggestions welcome :-)

Reviewer: I mean, I'd suggest GC again (`[ ] Warn as soon as possible and exit as soon as it can prove it is impossible to add a catch handler to the promise.`) but I'm afraid for my safety after how much backlash that suggestion got last time 😅

Author: Is that something that can be implemented in userland? Otherwise it wouldn't fit the question.

> ## What should be the default Node.js behavior for unhandled rejections?

Reviewer 7: We might want to add a note where `unhandled rejections` are described clearly to understand what they stand for?

Author: I think the introduction above covers that? I'm open to suggestions on how to improve it though.

Consider the following modes:

>   - `strict`: throw and crash as soon as possible (on nextTick). Can't be overriden by unhandledRejection listener

Reviewer: "This is similar to what Node.js does for regular uncaught exceptions"

>   - `strict`: throw and crash as soon as possible (on nextTick). Can't be overriden by unhandledRejection listener

Reviewer: "This is similar to what Node.js does when you pass --abort-on-uncaught-exception" ?

Reviewer 7: This is not absolutely correct. It does not crash but it raises an uncaught exception by default.

Maybe change it to:

```  - `strict`: raise an uncaught exception (on nextTick) similar to `throw new Error()` that is not caught. `unhandledRejection` listeners do not prevent raising the exception```

>   - `throw`: throw and crash as soon as possible (on nextTick). Can be overriden by unhandledRejection listener

Reviewer: "This is similar to what Node.js does for regular uncaught exceptions"?

Reviewer 7: Maybe change it to:

```- `throw`: raise an uncaught exception (on nextTick) similar to `throw new Error()` that is not caught. `unhandledRejection` listeners take precedence and prevent raising the exception```

>   - `warn`: outputs a warning as soon as possible (on nextTick). Continues running after the warning is emitted. If the process exits and no status code was set, the process exits with a success code

Reviewer: "This is similar to what browser consoles do"?

>   - `warn`: outputs a warning as soon as possible (on nextTick). Continues running after the warning is emitted. If the process exits and no status code was set, the process exits with a success code

Reviewer 7: What about explaining that all of this is happening on nextTick above in a note and to remove the (on nextTick) from the entries here?

  if (a === undefined)
    a();  // This will result in a rejection
}
```

Adding the `async` keyword to a function will turn any exceptions thrown inside that function (or any throw propagated from other functions called within it) into a rejection. The same happens when refactoring callback based code that throws into async functions / Promises. Below is an example of a callback based code refactored to Promises where exceptions become rejections:

## What is an unhandled rejection?

There are two ways to handle rejections: by attaching a `.catch` handler to it,
or by awaiting on the promise within a try/catch block. In both cases, the
handling of the rejection (the execution of the callback passed to `.catch`, or
the execution of the `catch {}` block) will happen in a future turn of the
event loop.

Promises are designed so that attaching handlers or awaiting can be done at any
point in time, from when the Promise was created (possibly while it's still
pending), to right before the program finishes execution.

A rejection is considered unhandled from the point it happens until the point
where a handler is attached to the Promise or the Promise is awaited within a

> `catch {}` block. Below are a few examples of handled and unhandled rejections.

Author: @benjamingr what do you think?

Reviewer: There are a couple of technical inaccuracies here:

 - There are a lot more ways to handle rejections (put a promise in a Promise.all or other combinator, `resolve` another promise with it in the promise constructor etc).
 - It is not clear what "in a future turn of the event loop" means in the context of handling of the rejection but that's usually not the case - since it happens after nextTicks run but before any "event loop stuff" like timers and I/O.

But I think it's fine for us to be not 100% technically accurate when explaining terms and honestly we could keep talking about this for years :D 

I think overall the survey is LGTM and I'm +1 on sending it.

```js
async function foo() {
  throw new Error();
}

foo()  // 1. Unhandled at this point
  .catch(() => console.error("an error occured"));  // 2. Now it's handled

try {
  await foo();
} catch(e) {  // 3. Handled
  console.error("an error occured")
}

foo(); // 4. Unhandled, but execution continues

const rejected = foo(); // 5. Unhandled on current event loop turn

// 4. ... but handled in a future turn of the event loop when the setTimeout
// callback is executed.
setTimeout(() => rejected.catch(() => console.error("an error occured")), 100);
```

As we can see in the examples, an unhandled rejection might be handled in the future, like example 4, but it might also stay unhandled forever (like example 5).

> Certain unhandled rejections may in rare cases leave your application in a non-deterministic and unsafe state, whether it's internal application state (including memory leaks), external resources used by your application (say, file handles or database connections), or external state (say, consistency of data in a database).

Reviewer 8: Can you add:

> As an example, the following server is not sending a response back to the client, causing a socket leak and a possible Denial of Service attack:

```js
const http = require('http')
const server = http.createServer(handle)

server.listen(3000)

function handle (req, res) {
  doStuff()
    .then((body) => {
      res.end(body)
    })
}

function doStuff () {
  if (Math.random() < 0.5) {
    return Promise.reject(new Error('kaboom'))
  }

  return Promise.resolve('hello world')
}
```

```

Author: Done!

  - [ ] Third-party libraries
  - [ ] Command-line tools
  - [ ] Web servers
  - [ ] Computation-heavy processing
  - [ ] Desktop applications
  - [ ] Other (please elaborate)

## When a rejected promise doesn't have a catch handler, what is the behavior of your application today? 

For example:

```js
async function error() {
  throw new Error();
}
error();
```

If working on multiple applications or projects, choose the answer that describes the behavior on your biggest project, or on the project you worked the most.

  - [ ] Node.js logs a warning alongside a deprecation notice, execution continues (this is the default Node.js behavior today)
  - [ ] Logs a warning, continue running, no deprecation warning
  - [ ] Logs a warning, continue running, no deprecation warning, exits with an error code when program finishes
  - [ ] Exit as soon as possible (this is the default Node.js behavior for uncaught exceptions today)
  - [ ] Other (please elaborate)

## How do you deal with managing resources wrapped with promises when an unhandled rejection occurs?

Node.js code may wrap resource managing code in async/await:

```js
// if this method wasn't async, node would crash by default

> myEmitter.on('event', async () =>{

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
myEmitter.on('event', async () => {
```

## What is a Promise rejection?

A Promise rejection indicates that something went wrong while executing a Promise or an async function. Rejections can occur in several situations: throwing inside an async function or a `Promise` executor/then/catch/finally callback, when calling the `reject` callback of an `executor`, or when calling `Promise.reject`.

```js
Promise.reject(new Error())  // This will result in a rejection

new Promise((fulfill, reject) => {
  reject(new Error());  // This will result in a rejection
});

new Promise(() => {
  throw new Error();  // This will result in a rejection
})

Promise.resolve().then(() => {
  throw new Error();  // This will result in a rejection
})

Promise.reject().then(() = {}, () => {
  throw new Error();  // This will result in a rejection
}

Promise.reject().catch(() => {
  throw new Error();  // This will result in a rejection
})

Promise.resolve().finally(() => {
  throw new Error();  // This will result in a rejection
});

async function () {
  throw new Error();  // This will result in a rejection
}

async function () {
  if (a === undefined)
    a();  // This will result in a rejection
}
```

> Adding the `async` keyword to a function will turn any exceptions thrown inside that function (or any throw propagated from other functions called within it) into a rejection. The same happens when refactoring callback based code that throws into async functions / Promises. Below is an example of a callback based code refactored to Promises where exceptions become rejections:

Reviewer 9: This paragraph says that the example is below, but the example appears to be missing…?

Author: I think something went wrong during a rebase, the example was indeed supposed to be below, but I can't find the example anymore :facepalm:

I'll rewrite the example.

## What is an unhandled rejection?

There are two ways to handle rejections: by attaching a `.catch` handler to it,
or by awaiting on the promise within a try/catch block. In both cases, the
handling of the rejection (the execution of the callback passed to `.catch`, or
the execution of the `catch {}` block) will happen in a future turn of the
event loop.

Promises are designed so that attaching handlers or awaiting can be done at any
point in time, from when the Promise was created (possibly while it's still
pending), to right before the program finishes execution.

A rejection is considered unhandled from the point it happens until the point
where a handler is attached to the Promise or the Promise is awaited within a
`catch {}` block. Below are a few examples of handled and unhandled rejections.

```js
async function foo() {
  throw new Error();
}

foo()  // 1. Unhandled at this point
  .catch(() => console.error("an error occured"));  // 2. Now it's handled

try {
  await foo();
} catch(e) {  // 3. Handled
  console.error("an error occured")
}

foo(); // 4. Unhandled, but execution continues

const rejected = foo(); // 5. Unhandled on current event loop turn

> // 4. ... but handled in a future turn of the event loop when the setTimeout

Reviewer 9: The numbering here is inconsistent... there are two points numbered 4, and the "example 4" text below it is confusing.

Author: Oops, I messed up the numbering here. I'll fix it.

> and the "example 4" text below it is confusing

Any suggestions on how to make it more approachable?

Reviewer 9: I just meant that you can't say "example 4" when there are two examples 4 ;-)

Author: Oh, I see. So the idea is that the "second" example 4 is a continuation of the first (it's still the same example, but it shows how a catch can be attached at a later point in time). I'll see if there's a way to rephrase and reorganize so it keeps the message but in a clear way (or, if you have any suggestions, I'm open to hear :) )

Certain unhandled rejections may in rare cases leave your application in a non-deterministic and unsafe state, whether it's internal application state (including memory leaks), external resources used by your application (say, file handles or database connections), or external state (say, consistency of data in a database).

As an example, the following server is not sending a response back to the client, causing a socket leak and a possible Denial of Service attack:

```js
const http = require('http')
const server = http.createServer(handle)

server.listen(3000)

function handle (req, res) {
  doStuff()
    .then((body) => {
      res.end(body)
    })
}

function doStuff () {
  if (Math.random() < 0.5) {
    return Promise.reject(new Error('kaboom'))
  }

  return Promise.resolve('hello world')
}
```

## Are you currently using Promises, async functions, a mix, or neither?

(Multiple choice)

  - [ ] Native Promises (`new Promise`, `Promise.resolve`, `Promise.reject`)
  - [ ] Third-party Promises (for example: Bluebird)
  - [ ] async functions

>   - [ ] Not writing Promise-based code or using Promise-based libraries

Reviewer 10: Do we want to add

```
 - [ ] Add `process.on('unhandledRejection', handleError)` and handle errors in a single place.
```

I've written code for Electron / Lambda where I ignore promises rejections and handle them globally.

Author: I think you meant to comment in the question below? Either way, this is covered in another question (for this case, I'd expect participants to answer "leaving handling to my caller")

Reviewer 10: Oh your right, i did leave my comment on the wrong block. switching between text and rendered HTML fail.

Reviewer 10: Left the comment in the correct place. oops, expanded upon it. this one can be resolved. :see_no_evil:

## How are you handling rejections today?

When consuming Promises, async functions or thenables, which of the options below do you use to handle rejections?

(Multiple choice)

  - [ ] `.catch()`
  - [ ] `try / catch` wrapping an `await` operation

>   - [ ] Leave the handling to my caller

Reviewer 10: Do we want to consider an extra option

```
 - [ ] Add `process.on('unhandledRejection', handleError)` and handle errors in a single place.
```

This is different then `Leave the handling to my caller` because you can then write code where you do

```js
async function doSomething() {}`

doSomething() // no await / catch;
// or more realistically `x.on('someevent', doSomething)`
```

The caller does not have `.catch()` nor `try / catch` ;

This is mostly about using `async / await` without `try / catch / .catch()` using a library like https://github.com/scopsy/await-to-js

Author: I still think this is covered in the "leave the handling to the caller" (maybe changing to "leave the handling to someone else"?) and (especially) by the other question. Adding an option for unhandledRejection handler here would mix localized handling with global handling, and IMO that's not the goal of this question.

I would like to hear others opinion on this though.

Author: Maybe this question shouldn't even be in the survey (sometimes I use .catch, try catch and "leave to others" all in the same code).

Author: Kept the question and expanded the "leave handling..." answer.

  - [ ] Not writing Promise-based code or using Promise-based libraries

## Do you know that Node.js has a global handler for unhandled rejections (`process.on('unhandledRejection')`)? If so, do you use it?
 
  - [ ] I use `process.on('unhandledRejection')`
  - [ ] I don't use `process.on('unhandledRejection')`
  - [ ] I didn't know `process.on('unhandledRejection')` existed

## Do you know that Node.js has a flag to change the behavior of unhandled rejections `--unhandled-rejections`? If so, do you use it?

  - [ ] I use `--unhandled-rejections` set to `'strict'`
  - [ ] I use `--unhandled-rejections` set to `'warn'`
  - [ ] I use `--unhandled-rejections` set to `'none'`
  - [ ] I don't use `--unhandled-rejections`
  - [ ] I use a third-party library (like make-promises-safe) to deal with unhandled rejections
  - [ ] I didn't know `--unhandled-rejections` existed

## Do you know that Node.js has a global handler for uncaught exception (`process.on('uncaughtException')`)? If so, do you use it?
 

>   - [ ] I use `process.on('unhandledRejection')`

Reviewer 9: These should say `uncaughtException` … the answers are incorrectly copied and pasted from an earlier question.

  - [ ] Web servers
  - [ ] Computation-heavy processing
  - [ ] Desktop applications
  - [ ] Other (please elaborate)

## When a rejected promise doesn't have a catch handler, what is the behavior of your application today? 

For example:

```js
async function error() {
  throw new Error();
}
error();
```

If working on multiple applications or projects, choose the answer that describes the behavior on your biggest project, or on the project you worked the most.

  - [ ] Node.js logs a warning alongside a deprecation notice, execution continues (this is the default Node.js behavior today)
  - [ ] Logs a warning, continue running, no deprecation warning
  - [ ] Logs a warning, continue running, no deprecation warning, exits with an error code when program finishes
  - [ ] Exit as soon as possible (this is the default Node.js behavior for uncaught exceptions today)
  - [ ] Other (please elaborate)

## How do you deal with managing resources wrapped with promises when an unhandled rejection occurs?

Node.js code may wrap resource managing code in async/await:

```js
// if this method wasn't async, node would crash by default
myEmitter.on('event', async () => {
   // react to event

>   databaseConnection.release(); // throws an error

Reviewer 10: I don't understand the comment about throwing an error. If the method to "release" the database connection throws then either A) It released anyway or B) its impossible to release the connection

Maybe you meant a different example where an error is thrown before `release()` and the `release()` method is never called.

```js
await databaseConnection.getValue() // throws an error
databaseConnection.release()
```

Author: @benjamingr suggested this example, so I'll let him answer.

Reviewer: > A) It released anyway or B) its impossible to release the connection

Either releasing the connection failed (in which way you probably want to restart the server) or there exists a more "severe" release API for example:

```
database.release(); // EREAD_IN_PROGRESS
database.forceRelease(); // works
```

I think it's also fine for the example to show release never being called (by throwing an error earlier) and it might simplify things.

Reviewer 10: Adding `// throws an error; oops forgot to call database.forceRelease()`

Would resolve my confusion.

Author: Let's go with the getValue example above ("release never called"), I think it simplifies and clarifies things.

 - [ ] In theory this can be an issue with code I author but in practice things have been working out fine for me and I ignore these errors.
 - [ ] The server keeps running, I log uncaught exceptions and unhandled rejections to monitoring and use a tool to notify engineers if such a bug occurs.

## What should be the default Node.js behavior for unhandled rejections?

Consider the following modes:

  - `strict`: raise an uncaught exception similar to `throw new Error()` that is not caught. `unhandledRejection` listeners do not prevent raising the exception
  - `throw`: raise an uncaught exception similar to `throw new Error()` that is not caught. `unhandledRejection` listeners take precedence and prevent raising the exception
  - `warn`: outputs a warning as soon as possible. Continues running after the warning is emitted. If the process exits and no status code was set, the process exits with a success code. This is similar to what browser consoles do
  - `warn-with-error`: outputs a warning as soon as possible. Continues running after the warning is emitted. If the process exits and no status code was set, the process exits with an error code
  - `none`: do nothing

> For all the modes, the action (raise an exceptiom output a warninig) will happen on `nextTick`.

Reviewer 9: typo, should be "warning"

# Node.js Promise reject use case survey

## Are you currently using Promises, async/await, a mix, or neither?

Assume using as creating your own `new Promise` and `async function`

 - [ ] Promises
 - [ ] async/await
 - [ ] Both
 - [ ] Neither / not writing Promise-based code

> ## Are you currently using `.catch()`, `try await catch`, a mix, or neither to handle rejections?

Reviewer 2: "`try await catch`" isn't an idiom i've heard to describe what you're describing here; i think it needs elaboration.

When consuming Promises, async functions or thenables, which of the options below do you use to handle rejections?

 - [ ] `.catch()`
 - [ ] `try await catch`
 - [ ] Both

>  - [ ] Neither / not writing Promise-based code

Reviewer 6: I would add an other option here. Some codebases rely on a mixture of strategies and it's often inconsistent when there are multiple teams involved so this can be a difficult question to ask.

`Ignore the rejection` should likely also be an explicit option here.

> 

Reviewer 8: I would add the following question:

```
Are you aware that not handling rejections may cause memory leaks or denial of service vulnerabilities?

- [  ] Yes
- [  ] No
- [  ] unhandled rejections do not cause memory leaks or denial of service vulnerabilities
```

## Do you use one or more of the following options as a global handler for Promise rejections?

> Leave empty if you use the default Node.js behavior

Reviewer 2: maybe better to have an explicit option for "use the default behavior", otherwise you can't necessarily infer it based on "didn't answer this question"

Reviewer 6: Absolutely. There are many who do not really have an understanding of what the default Node.js behavior actually is, even if they do use it. Alternatively, I would split this into two separate yes/no questions:

* Do you use `process.on('unhandledRejection')` as a global handler for Promise rejections?
* Do you use the `--unhandled-rejections` command-line flag as a global handler for Promise rejections?

>   - [ ] Yes, via process.on('unhandledRejection')

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - [ ] Yes, via `process.on('unhandledRejection')`
```

  - [ ] Yes, via the `--unhandled-rejections` flag

## Are you using Promises in customer facing, production applications?

  - [ ] Yes
  - [ ] No
  - [ ] I don't know

## Which of the use cases described below do you spend most of your time on?

  - [ ] Third-party libraries
  - [ ] Command-line tools
  - [ ] Web servers

>   - [ ] Computational-heave processing

Reviewer 11: typo: should be "heavy"

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
  - [ ] Computation-heavy processing
```

  - [ ] Desktop applications
  - [ ] Other (please elaborate)

## When a rejected promise doesn't have a catch handler, what is the behavior of your application today? 

>   - [ ] Current default Node.js behavior: logs a warning alongside a deprecation notice, continue execution

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  - [ ] Node.js logs a warning alongside a deprecation notice, execution continues
```

# Node.js Promise reject use case survey

## Are you currently using Promises, async/await, a mix, or neither?

> Assume using as creating your own `new Promise` and `async function`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Assume using as creating your own `new Promise`, `Promise.resolve`, and `async function`; or using libraries that produce Promises (that you use with `.then`/`.catch`, or with `.await`)
```

(Multiple choice)

  - [ ] Promises
  - [ ] async/await

>   - [ ] Not writing Promise-based code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - [ ] Not writing Promise-based code or using Promise-based libraries
```

## How are you handling rejections today?

> When consuming Promises, async functions or thenables, which of the options below do you use to handle rejections?

Reviewer: Explain what a rejection is here? I'd assume a large number of people don't know what rejections actually are and assume they are just "async errors" that come from async functions.

(Multiple choice)

  - [ ] `.catch()`
  - [ ] `try / catch` wrapping an `await` operation
  - [ ] Ignore the rejection

>   - [ ] Not writing Promise-based code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - [ ] Not writing Promise-based code or using Promise-based libraries
```

> ## Do you use `process.on('unhandledRejection')` as a global handler for unhandled rejections?

Reviewer: I'd ask if they know what the unhandledRejection hook is first?

 
  - [ ] Yes
  - [ ] No

## Do you use the `--unhandled-rejections` command-line flag as a global handler for unhandled rejections?

  - [ ] Yes
  - [ ] No

## Are you using Promises in customer facing, production applications?

  - [ ] Yes
  - [ ] No
  - [ ] I don't know

> ## Which of the use cases described below do you spend most of your time on?

Reviewer 2: this should probably be multiple choice?

Author: Might make sense, although I was trying to capture majority of time spent (and not everything someone works on).

  - [ ] Third-party libraries
  - [ ] Command-line tools
  - [ ] Web servers
  - [ ] Computation-heavy processing
  - [ ] Desktop applications
  - [ ] Other (please elaborate)

> ## When a rejected promise doesn't have a catch handler, what is the behavior of your application today? 

Reviewer: I think we should show an example of this so we're sure people understand what this means.

For example:

```js
async function error() {
  throw new Error();
}
error();
```

  - [ ] Node.js logs a warning alongside a deprecation notice, execution continues
  - [ ] Logs a warning, continue running, no deprecation warning
  - [ ] Logs a warning, continue running, no deprecation warning, exits with an error code when program finishes
  - [ ] Exit as soon as possible
  - [ ] Other (please elaborate)

> ## What should be the default Node.js behavior for unhandled rejections?

Reviewer: Like above, I don't think people understand what unhandled rejections are very well.

I would prefer "when you throw an error from an async function and don't `.catch` it" or something similar that describes that the issue being discussed is errors thrown and not just `Promise.reject` calls. A lot of people don't know that both of these create rejections.

Consider the following modes:

  - `strict`: throw and crash as soon as possible (on nextTick). Can't be overriden by unhandledRejection listener
  - `throw`: throw and crash as soon as possible (on nextTick). Can be overriden by unhandledRejection listener
  - `warn`: outputs a warning as soon as possible (on nextTick). Continues running after the warning is emitted. If the process exits and no status code was set, the process exits with a success code
  - `warn-with-error`: outputs a warning as soon as possible (on nextTick). Continues running after the warning is emitted. If the process exits and no status code was set, the process exits with an error code
  - `none`: do nothing

Which one you think should be the default on Node.js?

  - [ ] `strict`
  - [ ] `throw`
  - [ ] `warn`
  - [ ] `warn-with-error`
  - [ ] `none`
  - [ ] Other (please elaborate)

> # Are you aware that not handling rejections may cause memory leaks or denial of service vulnerabilities?

Reviewer 4: This seems somewhat leading/argumentative (with the third answer below). What is the goal of this question?

Author: @mcollina mind to shed some light on the goal of this question?

Reviewer: I am also not a fan of this question and think it's leading the participants. I would ask about the actual objective issue that is being discussed.

> # Are you aware that not handling rejections may cause memory leaks or denial of service vulnerabilities?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Do you believe that not handling rejections may cause memory leaks or denial of service vulnerabilities?
```
this is a very leading question; if the third option is actually an answer, then it is not a given that this is the case, which means "are you aware that" is inappropriate, since it implies that this is objectively the case.

Author: Let's wait for @mcollina reply above. We can remove this question if it's considered too leading/biased/argumentative.

Reviewer: I find @ljharb 's suggestions equally leading by the way :]

I recommend we ask something like:

```suggestion
# How do you deal with managing resources wrapped by promises when an unhandled rejection occurs?
```

Or something similar that indicates that the issue is:

 - I have a handle - for example a database connection.
 - the method containing that handle throws (for example releasing the connection).
 - Since it's an async method (if it was sync the server would crash) - I get an unhandled rejection.
 - If I don't quit or explicitly deal with it, it's super easy to create cascading failures and cause denial of service vulnerabilities.

I think it's important that this is not _all_ unhandled rejections but a particular sort, but on the other hand that this is a very real issue.

Reviewer 2: I agree - since it's likely a small number of unhandled rejection cases, that *if* they occur, can cause very serious problems, it's important to avoid leading questions in any direction.

# Node.js Promise reject use case survey

> Today, Node.js handles unhandled rejections by emitting a deprecation warning to stderr. The warning shows the stack where the rejection happened, and states that in future Node.js versions unhandled rejections will result on Node.js exitting with non-zero status code. We intend to remove the deprecation warning, replacing it with a stable behavior which might be different from the one described on the deprecation warning. We're running this survey to better understand how Node.js users are using Promises and how they are dealing with unhandled rejections today, so we can make an informed decision on how to move forward.

Reviewer 13: Nit: 
> in future Node.js versions unhandled rejections will result on Node.js exitting with non-zero status code.

 in future Node.js versions unhandled rejections will result `in` Node.js `exiting` with non-zero status code.

## What is a Promise rejection?

> A Promise rejection indicates that something went wrong while executing a Promise or an async function. Rejections can occur on several situations: thorwing inside an async function or a `Promise` executor/then/catch/finally callback, when calling the `reject` callback of an `executor`, or when calling `Promise.reject`.

Reviewer 13: Nit:
> Rejections can occur on several situations: thorwing inside an async function

Rejections can occur `in` several situations: `throwing` inside an async function

Certain unhandled rejections may in rare cases leave your application in a non-deterministic and unsafe state, whether it's internal application state (including memory leaks), external resources used by your application (say, file handles or database connections), or external state (say, consistency of data in a database).

As an example, the following server is not sending a response back to the client, causing a socket leak and a possible Denial of Service attack:

```js

> const http = require('http')
> const server = http.createServer(handle)
> 
> server.listen(3000)
> 
> function handle (req, res) {
>   doStuff()
>     .then((body) => {
>       res.end(body)
>     })
> }
> 
> function doStuff () {
>   if (Math.random() < 0.5) {
>     return Promise.reject(new Error('kaboom'))
>   }
> 
>   return Promise.resolve('hello world')
> }

Reviewer 2: total nit, but this way it'll match the most common style in the ecosystem
```suggestion
const http = require('http');
const server = http.createServer(handle);

server.listen(3000);

function handle(req, res) {
  doStuff()
    .then((body) => {
      res.end(body);
    });
}

function doStuff() {
  if (Math.random() < 0.5) {
    return Promise.reject(new Error('kaboom'));
  }

  return Promise.resolve('hello world');
}
```

Author: ~oh no, we'll start discussing semicolons now~

Author: I should apply a linter here or something, I just noticed there's no consistency across the examples :/

Author: Ran eslint on code blocks, should be more following a single style now
